Hello everyone and welcome to part one of CSSA level one.
I just wanted to quickly point out in the section of the course the notes are divided up into parts
1 through 5 and then we have a final level one assessment.
Each part consists of an eighth HTML file and a CSSA file.
So for example you may have something like Part 1 that age html and then Part 1 underscore master that
CSC.
So those two files are meant to go together and be linked together and you can refer to the contents
of the CSSA level one folder for more information.
OK let's get started with Part 1 where we begin to discuss the very basics of CSSA and how we can link
it to an aged female file going to jump to the Adam text editor to get started.
All right so here I have my editor open as well as my browser.
I've created a new folder called CSSA level 1 and they have two files in it.
One that each T.M. and part 1 underscore mastered that C Ss and will be Typee encoding these out if
you want the completed versions.
Just check the CSSA level one folder from the download.
All right.
Moving along a quick note it's unusual to have a digit or a number inside the name of a CSSA reached
him.
File.
I'm just leaving them there so it's clear which ones match up with the course notes and parts.
But usually you wouldn't actually have a digit or number inside the name of an email or the SS file.
So I just wanted to quickly note that lets start off by making a very basic ASML page and that will
show how we can link stuff in the CSSA file to it.
So right now I have hurt one that asked him open all h t m l and I'm going to collapse the directory.
Just control or command backslash there and we'll just make this called C Ss basics and the title will
save that and then in the body I'm going to have a heading in this heading is just going to say this
is the heading and will have a paragraph as well in the body and it's going to just say let's see a
list and then let's just create an ordered list o l where each item has a list item tag line will have
item 1.
Now let's make two more items in this list.
Item 2 ally.
Enter there and then.
Item 3.
OK let's save that.
Refresh our browser over here.
Looks good.
I can zoom in a little bit so we can see it better.
Ok so I have the heading.
Let's see a list item one item to item 3 and lets on the bottom say a heading for.
This is adding for save that refresh.
Now we see at the bottom we have heading for perfect.
Now we want to learn how we can actually connect styles to this same old document.
And that is where the head portion of the HVM document comes into play.
What we need to do is use a special keyword tag called link you'll see as I begin to type it.
I can hit enter and I get a link here and by default it says the relationship of this link is a stylesheet
and then we have a Tref which is going to be the actual path to this CSSA file and in our case it's
called Part 1 underscore M. that C Ss and we can just use Part 1 underscore M. that CSSA.
If it was located somewhere else on my computer I'd have to type in the whole file path or make a reference
to the whole file path.
But these two files are in the same directory so I can just write part 1 underscore master that see
SS and I also want to make sure that I specify that it's a style sheet and then I click save here and
if I refresh I won't notice anything different but now my document is linked to my style sheet.
So let's jump to the style sheet.
The start see SS and get started.
First let's show the basics.
If I want to make a comment it's just a forward slash Asterix and then anything you type in between
two of those so then another Asterix forward slash is a comment and just like we did of H Tim L I can
type some text so will say some text and that I can do control forward slash.
It automatically makes that into a comment so you can save yourself some time there.
That also works for a multi-line So if I have some text on multiple lines I can highlight all of this
control or command forward slash and it will automatically make that all into a comment and it's always
good to calmy your code.
If you come back to a later time.
Now let's discuss the general form of SS The general form look something like this.
You have some sort of selected tag then curly braces inside these curly braces are going to have some
property a colon and then some value for that property in a semi-colon.
So that's going to be the very basic format for a CSSA file.
I wanted to comment that out and actually show you an example of one.
So let's think of a selected tag.
If I look back to my H.T. mail file I know that I have H-1 as a possible tag.
So let's grab that tag by typing in H-1.
I put in curly brackets and I can zoom in here a little bit so it's a little clearer.
And then I want a property of H-1 and one of the first properties are going to be working with is the
color property and you can see here that as I begin to type stuff in the CSSA file.
Adam text editor is actually trying to help me out.
Like oh you want color you want columns.
Column count etc..
So we just want color so I can actually hit enter there and all begin.
Help me out here with this.
So I want color and then I can state the actual color I want in this case.
I want the color to be blue and then a semi-colon.
And you notice what happened as I was typing the color itself for instance purple it doesn't turn yellow
that syntax highlighting until it's a color that works.
Now there are actually a lot of colors that CSSA already knows just by their name things such as basic
colors like red green black orange purple etc. later on where you'll learn how to actually passen color
codes.
But right now we're going to keep things really simple and just make this blue.
So let's save this and see what happens when we refresh our page.
And now you notice that this is the heading.
Anything with the H-1 tag.
Now has the color blue.
And that's the very basic idea of how C Ss works.
So you just have whatever tag you want to effect in the female the property of that age T.M..
And then what you want to change the property to.
There are a ton of properties you can edit using CSSA connected to your HTML file.
One of the most basic ones so we've covered already is color and we're going to show you right now in
this lecture various ways to change the color using not just key words but also code such as in our
G-B code in our G-B code and a hex code and we'll discuss what those are in just a little bit.
But don't worry too much right now about having to memorize all the various properties that are available
to you as we go through CSSA level 1 and see esus level 2 you're going to begin to naturally stand what
properties you want to affect.
Using C Ss for this lecture.
All I want you to get out of it is the general format of CSX which is the tag name the curly braces
and then the property.
And what you want the property value to be and how to link CSSA to H.T. mail file and the different
ways to change color.
So we've already learned how to link the H.T. mail file member that was just this link tag.
We've already learned the basic method of CSSA which is this tag curly braces.
And then property value.
So let's continue to explore the different ways we can effect color.
So so far we learn that there are certain keywords very common colors are available for us if I make
this red save this refresh on my page.
Now this is the heading is read.
So let's explore some more of this.
I'm going to put another tag in.
So that's going to affect all elements of the tag.
I remember that's item one.
Item 2 an item 3 let's call color now let's make these green save it refresh over here.
Now I can see the item one item tonight.
Three are green but there are other ways to do colors.
You don't just have to use colored anes because maybe you want your own custom color a certain shade
of blue a certain shade of red etc. you can do.
RG codes.
Let's explore a little bit more about what R.G. be codes look like.
I take my browser and expand it and I go to Google then here in Google I can search for RSGB enter and
I get this RG color model and then I can also do RSGB picker and notice that some of the top links are
color pictures that will be three schools are to be color code charts.
Any of these will work just fine.
They can click on color picker that come basically here we have a what's known as a color picker ZF-I
zoom in a bit.
You may be familiar with something that looks like this.
Remember we actually saw our own colored picker back when we were working of HMO.
But here you just select whatever color you want based off what looks good to you visually and you can
get the actual R.G. B code and you can also get hex codes if we're going to talk about it just a little
bit.
But if you notice we go back to Google and just search for color picker than Google itself will actually
show you the values here.
So I like using Google's own color pictures just google searching for color picker actually brings R.G.
B and this hex code for you which we're going to discuss just a little bit.
But let's say I wanted a specific shade of green.
I saw the basic green we had but let's say I want kind of a more forest green a little darker.
So I come down here I pick the color I like and I know these color numbers right here.
This basically is a representation of how much red is in the color how much green is in the color and
how much blue is in the color.
That's why it's called r.g.
So I can come back here and in this RSGB I will put those numbers so it was eight to me back here 84
in one.
So eight's 84 and 1.
And notice once it's complete everything is now the same teal colors for syntax highlighting.
So I will save this come back here and refresh and might not be too noticeable on your screen but I
can see that this is a nice darker green.
And just to make it really obvious we'll come and choose a brighter colors so let's go from dark green
to maybe some bright orange to come back to color picker.
Play around with this.
Maybe choose this really bright orange over here.
That's 2 5 5 9 7 0.
I'll copy that person in here to 5:5 red 97 green 0 blue.
I will save my CSSA file to save those changes.
Refresh.
Now I see the list items have definitely changed.
Item one item to item 3.
All right.
Let's explore two more methods of changing color.
So I will grab this.
Let's see a list which is or just a paragraph.
So I say P curly braces call the color property and now I want to show you how to use hex codes and
hex codes are basically just another way of displaying the color than an actual code value.
So let's make it into kind of a nice blue.
Hopefully these are showing up well on your screen.
So I like the shade of blue.
I copy and paste this hex code and make sure it has this hash tag symbol in front of it.
Paste it in here and then a semi-colon to save this and then I will come back here to see if this basic's
refresh.
And now I see that the paragraph or anything of that paragraph tag has been changed to have a blue color
that specific blue that I chose.
So that's just another way of coding out a color you have.
RG B red green blue and yellow hex codes.
Finally I want to show you one last way and I will do it for heading for.
And it's really similar to R.G. B except it's R.G. B.A.A. and the difference between RSGB which is red
green blue and are G.P.A. which looks like this color.
And then it's going to have four inputs is that R.G. is just red green blue R-GA is red green blue and
a term called Alpha.
And if you've done any sort of data visualization before you'll be familiar with Alpha where the alpha
parameter is a number between 0 and 1 or 0 stands for fully transparent and one that stands for fully
opaque.
So you can think of that second or last a value that Alpha value is just clarifying how dark or how
transparent this color is.
So let's come back up here.
Choose these values the same values and then input.
Let's say 0.5 for our color.
So we'll save that come back to heading for refreshed so we can see here at 0.5 the orange is a little
lighter.
If I go all the way to 1 and I save this refresh here then I can see that I have basically the darkest
possible version of this.
RG B it's fully opaque and that should match up with the normal R.G. be so be with a or alpha being
one is the exact same thing as R.G. B and F I make this zero and say refresh that I can see that it's
fully transparent.
So I want to highlight it.
I can see it but with zero it's fully transparent.
So again our GPA really similar to our D-B except a this last term just defines how transparent it is
with 0 being fully transparent and one being fully opaque.
OK.
So that's it as far as this part one.
What we've learned so far is how to connect CSSA to each T.M. the general format for a CSSA select the
tag property value mechanism and then how we can affect colors throughout the course.
Probably the most common color method we're going to be using are hex codes.
And that's probably what you see most commonly these days.
You also see R.G. be quite a lot R-Ga..
It's not very common unless you're doing a very quick Web site so you just directly call a letter name
colors like red purple green etc. but for really quick jobs you may want to do that because it's much
easier but usually you see hex codes.
OK thanks everyone.
And if you have any questions feel free to post them to the Kewney forums.
I'll see you at the next lecture.